roles/collect-logs/README.md, before:

collect-logs
============

An Ansible role for aggregating logs from TripleO nodes.

Requirements
------------

This role gathers logs and debug information from a target system and
collates them in a designated directory, `artcl_collect_dir`, on the localhost.

Additionally, the role will convert templated bash scripts, created and used by
TripleO-Quickstart during deployment, into rST files. These rST files are
combined with static rST files and fed into Sphinx to create user friendly
post-build-documentation specific to an original deployment.

Finally, the role optionally handles uploading these logs to a rsync server or
to an OpenStack Swift object storage. Logs from Swift can be exposed with
[os-loganalyze](https://github.com/openstack-infra/os-loganalyze).

Role Variables
--------------

### Collection related

* `artcl_collect_list` -- A list of files and directories to gather from
  the target. Directories are collected recursively. Can include joker
  characters that bash understands. Should be specified as a YaML list,
  e.g.:

```yaml
artcl_collect_list:
    - /etc/nova
    - /home/stack/*.log
    - /var/log
```
* `artcl_exclude_list` -- A list of files and directories to remove from
  the collected logs. First of all we collect everything and then remove all
  we have in `artcl_exclude_list` (`/etc/puppet/modules` by default).

* `artcl_collect_dir` -- A local directory where the logs should be
  gathered, without a trailing slash.
* `artcl_gzip_only`: false/true  -- When true, gathered files are gzipped one
  by one in `artcl_collect_dir`, when false, a tar.gz file will contain all the
  logs.

### Documentation generation related

* `artcl_gen_docs`: false/true -- If true, the role will use build artifacts
  and Sphinx and produce user friendly documentation (default: false)
* `artcl_docs_source_dir` -- a local directory that serves as the Sphinx source
  directory.
* `artcl_docs_build_dir` -- A local directory that serves as the Sphinx build
  output directory.
* `artcl_create_docs_payload` -- Dictionary of lists that direct what and how
  to construct documentation.
    * `included_deployment_scripts` -- List of templated bash scripts to be
      converted to rST files.
    * `included_deployment_scripts` -- List of static rST files that will be
      included in the output documentation.
    * `table_of_contents` -- List that defines the order in which rST files
      will be laid out in the output documentation.
* `artcl_verify_sphinx_build` -- false/true -- If true, verify items defined
  in `artcl_create_docs_payload.table_of_contents` exist in sphinx generated
  index.html (default: false)

```yaml
artcl_create_docs_payload:
  included_deployment_scripts:
    - undercloud-install
    - undercloud-post-install
  included_static_docs:
    - env-setup-virt
  table_of_contents:
    - env-setup-virt
    - undercloud-install
    - undercloud-post-install
```

### Publishing related

* `artcl_publish`: true/false -- If true, the role will attempt to rsync logs
  to the target specified by `artcl_rsync_url`. Uses `BUILD_URL`, `BUILD_TAG`
  vars from the environment (set during a Jenkins job run) and requires the
  next to variables to be set.
* `artcl_txt_rename`: false/true -- rename text based file to end in .txt.gz to
  make upstream log servers display them in the browser instead of offering
  them to download
* `artcl_publish_timeout`: the maximum seconds the role can spend uploading the
  logs, the default is 1800 (30 minutes)
* `artcl_use_rsync`: false/true -- use rsync to upload the logs
* `artcl_rsync_use_daemon`: false/true -- use rsync daemon instead of ssh to connect
* `artcl_rsync_url` -- rsync target for uploading the logs. The localhost
  needs to have passwordless authentication to the target or the
  `PROVISIONER_KEY` Var specificed in the environment.
* `artcl_use_swift`: false/true -- use swift object storage to publish the logs
* `artcl_swift_auth_url` -- the OpenStack auth URL for Swift
* `artcl_swift_username` -- OpenStack username for Swift
* `artcl_swift_password` -- password for the Swift user
* `artcl_swift_tenant_name` -- OpenStack tenant name for Swift
* `artcl_swift_container` -- the name of the Swift container to use,
  default is `logs`
* `artcl_swift_delete_after` -- The number of seconds after which Swift will
  remove the uploaded objects, the default is 2678400 seconds = 31 days.
* `artcl_artifact_url` -- a HTTP URL at which the uploaded logs will be
  accessible after upload.
* `artcl_collect_sosreport` -- true/false -- If true, create and collect a
  sosreport for each host.

Example Playbook
----------------

```yaml
---
- name: Gather logs
  hosts: all:!localhost
  roles:
    - collect-logs
```

Templated Bash to rST Conversion Notes
--------------------------------------

Templated bash scripts used during deployment are converted to rST files
during the `create-docs` portion of the role's call. Shell scripts are
fed into an awk script and output as restructured text. The awk script
has several simple rules:

1. Only lines between `### ---start_docs` and `### ---stop_docs` will be
  parsed.
2. Lines containing `# nodoc` will be excluded.
3. Lines containing `## ::` indicate subsequent lines should be formatted
  as code blocks
4. Other lines beginning with `## <anything else>` will have the prepended
   `## ` removed. This is how and where general rST formatting is added.
5. All other lines, including shell comments, will be indented by four spaces.

Enabling sosreport Collection
-----------------------------

[sosreport](https://github.com/sosreport/sos) is a unified tool for collecting
system logs and other debug information. To enable creation of sosreport(s)
with this role, create a custom config (you can use centosci-logs.yml
as a template) and ensure that `artcl_collect_sosreport: true` is set.

License
-------

Apache 2.0

Author Information
------------------

RDO-CI Team

Commit message:

collect-logs: use rsync to gather logs
* Support excluding files during the copy step, avoiding
  time consuming copy operations.

* Empty directories are no longer collected. This results in a cleaner
  directory tree while browsing the collected files.

* The extra exclude items are just there to speed up rsync pattern
  matching as there are a lot of subdirs in /dev, /proc, /run, /sys and
  we generally do not want to collect files from there. It is possible
  to override it if needed.

* Directory definitions now need to end with / or with * to get
  collected.

Change-Id: Ie36073a0e7cda2c24d51305860049f2d8dcbb17e

roles/collect-logs/README.md, after:

collect-logs
============

An Ansible role for aggregating logs from TripleO nodes.

Requirements
------------

This role gathers logs and debug information from a target system and
collates them in a designated directory, `artcl_collect_dir`, on the localhost.

Additionally, the role will convert templated bash scripts, created and used by
TripleO-Quickstart during deployment, into rST files. These rST files are
combined with static rST files and fed into Sphinx to create user friendly
post-build-documentation specific to an original deployment.

Finally, the role optionally handles uploading these logs to a rsync server or
to an OpenStack Swift object storage. Logs from Swift can be exposed with
[os-loganalyze](https://github.com/openstack-infra/os-loganalyze).

Role Variables
--------------

### Collection related

* `artcl_collect_list` -- A list of files and directories to gather from
  the target. Directories are collected recursively and need to end with a
  "/" to get collected. Should be specified as a YaML list, e.g.:

```yaml
artcl_collect_list:
    - /etc/nova
    - /home/stack/*.log
    - /var/log
```

* `artcl_exclude_list` -- A list of files and directories to exclude from
  collecting. This list is passed to rsync as an exclude filter and it takes
  precedence over the collection list. For details see the "FILTER RULES" topic
  in the rsync man page.
* `artcl_collect_dir` -- A local directory where the logs should be
  gathered, without a trailing slash.
* `artcl_gzip_only`: false/true  -- When true, gathered files are gzipped one
  by one in `artcl_collect_dir`, when false, a tar.gz file will contain all the
  logs.

### Documentation generation related

* `artcl_gen_docs`: false/true -- If true, the role will use build artifacts
  and Sphinx and produce user friendly documentation (default: false)
* `artcl_docs_source_dir` -- a local directory that serves as the Sphinx source
  directory.
* `artcl_docs_build_dir` -- A local directory that serves as the Sphinx build
  output directory.
* `artcl_create_docs_payload` -- Dictionary of lists that direct what and how
  to construct documentation.
    * `included_deployment_scripts` -- List of templated bash scripts to be
      converted to rST files.
    * `included_deployment_scripts` -- List of static rST files that will be
      included in the output documentation.
    * `table_of_contents` -- List that defines the order in which rST files
      will be laid out in the output documentation.
* `artcl_verify_sphinx_build` -- false/true -- If true, verify items defined
  in `artcl_create_docs_payload.table_of_contents` exist in sphinx generated
  index.html (default: false)

```yaml
artcl_create_docs_payload:
  included_deployment_scripts:
    - undercloud-install
    - undercloud-post-install
  included_static_docs:
    - env-setup-virt
  table_of_contents:
    - env-setup-virt
    - undercloud-install
    - undercloud-post-install
```

### Publishing related

* `artcl_publish`: true/false -- If true, the role will attempt to rsync logs
  to the target specified by `artcl_rsync_url`. Uses `BUILD_URL`, `BUILD_TAG`
  vars from the environment (set during a Jenkins job run) and requires the
  next to variables to be set.
* `artcl_txt_rename`: false/true -- rename text based file to end in .txt.gz to
  make upstream log servers display them in the browser instead of offering
  them to download
* `artcl_publish_timeout`: the maximum seconds the role can spend uploading the
  logs, the default is 1800 (30 minutes)
* `artcl_use_rsync`: false/true -- use rsync to upload the logs
* `artcl_rsync_use_daemon`: false/true -- use rsync daemon instead of ssh to connect
* `artcl_rsync_url` -- rsync target for uploading the logs. The localhost
  needs to have passwordless authentication to the target or the
  `PROVISIONER_KEY` Var specificed in the environment.
* `artcl_use_swift`: false/true -- use swift object storage to publish the logs
* `artcl_swift_auth_url` -- the OpenStack auth URL for Swift
* `artcl_swift_username` -- OpenStack username for Swift
* `artcl_swift_password` -- password for the Swift user
* `artcl_swift_tenant_name` -- OpenStack tenant name for Swift
* `artcl_swift_container` -- the name of the Swift container to use,
  default is `logs`
* `artcl_swift_delete_after` -- The number of seconds after which Swift will
  remove the uploaded objects, the default is 2678400 seconds = 31 days.
* `artcl_artifact_url` -- a HTTP URL at which the uploaded logs will be
  accessible after upload.
* `artcl_collect_sosreport` -- true/false -- If true, create and collect a
  sosreport for each host.

Example Playbook
----------------

```yaml
---
- name: Gather logs
  hosts: all:!localhost
  roles:
    - collect-logs
```

Templated Bash to rST Conversion Notes
--------------------------------------

Templated bash scripts used during deployment are converted to rST files
during the `create-docs` portion of the role's call. Shell scripts are
fed into an awk script and output as restructured text. The awk script
has several simple rules:

1. Only lines between `### ---start_docs` and `### ---stop_docs` will be
  parsed.
2. Lines containing `# nodoc` will be excluded.
3. Lines containing `## ::` indicate subsequent lines should be formatted
  as code blocks
4. Other lines beginning with `## <anything else>` will have the prepended
   `## ` removed. This is how and where general rST formatting is added.
5. All other lines, including shell comments, will be indented by four spaces.

Enabling sosreport Collection
-----------------------------

[sosreport](https://github.com/sosreport/sos) is a unified tool for collecting
system logs and other debug information. To enable creation of sosreport(s)
with this role, create a custom config (you can use centosci-logs.yml
as a template) and ensure that `artcl_collect_sosreport: true` is set.

License
-------

Apache 2.0

Author Information
------------------

RDO-CI Team
