roles/collect-logs/docs/static/env-setup-virt.rst, before:

Virtual Environment
===================

|project| Quickstart can be used in a virtual environment using virtual machines instead
of actual baremetal. However, one baremetal machine ( VIRTHOST ) is still
needed to act as the host for the virtual machines.


Minimum System Requirements
---------------------------

By default, this setup creates 3 virtual machines:

* 1 Undercloud
* 1 Overcloud Controller
* 1 Overcloud Compute

.. note::
   Each virtual machine must consist of at least 4 GB of memory and 40 GB of disk
   space.
   The virtual machine disk files are thinly provisioned and will not take up
   the full 40GB initially.

You will need a baremetal host machine (referred to as ``$VIRTHOST``) with at least
**16G** of RAM, preferably **32G**, and you must be able to ``ssh`` to the
virthost machine as root without a password from the machine running ansible.
Currently the virthost machine must be running a recent Red Hat-based Linux
distribution (CentOS 7, RHEL 7, Fedora 22 - only CentOS 7 is currently tested),
but we hope to add support for non-Red Hat distributions too.

|project| Quickstart currently supports the following operating systems:

* CentOS 7 x86_64

TripleO Quickstart
------------------

TripleO Quickstart is a fast and easy way to setup and configure your virtual environment for TripleO.
Further documentation can be found at https://github.com/openstack/tripleo-quickstart

A quick way to test that your virthost machine is ready to rock is::

    ssh root@$VIRTHOST uname -a

Getting the script
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can download the `quickstart.sh` script with `wget`::

    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openstack/tripleo-quickstart/master/quickstart.sh

Install the dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You need some software available on your local system before you can run
`quickstart.sh`. You can install the necessary dependencies by running::

    bash quickstart.sh --install-deps

Setup your virtual environment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Deploy your virtual environment by running::

    bash quickstart.sh $VIRTHOST

Commit message:

updates to the static template for job doc.
The static job doc only describes how to launch quickstart in the
most basic way.  The automatically created doc has several different
configurations and we should instruct users how to find and use the
appropriate configuration.

Change-Id: I089154c6d0177fff945f9c7afcfc01f560fc77be

roles/collect-logs/docs/static/env-setup-virt.rst, after:

Virtual Environment
===================

|project| Quickstart can be used in a virtual environment using virtual machines instead
of actual baremetal. However, one baremetal machine ( VIRTHOST ) is still
needed to act as the host for the virtual machines.


Minimum System Requirements
---------------------------

By default, this setup creates 3 virtual machines:

* 1 Undercloud
* 1 Overcloud Controller
* 1 Overcloud Compute

.. note::
   Each virtual machine must consist of at least 4 GB of memory and 40 GB of disk
   space.
   The virtual machine disk files are thinly provisioned and will not take up
   the full 40GB initially.

You will need a baremetal host machine (referred to as ``$VIRTHOST``) with at least
**16G** of RAM, preferably **32G**, and you must be able to ``ssh`` to the
virthost machine as root without a password from the machine running ansible.
Currently the virthost machine must be running a recent Red Hat-based Linux
distribution (CentOS 7, RHEL 7, Fedora 22 - only CentOS 7 is currently tested),
but we hope to add support for non-Red Hat distributions too.

|project| Quickstart currently supports the following operating systems:

* CentOS 7 x86_64

TripleO Quickstart
------------------

TripleO Quickstart is a fast and easy way to setup and configure your virtual environment for TripleO.
Further documentation can be found at https://github.com/openstack/tripleo-quickstart

A quick way to test that your virthost machine is ready to rock is::

    ssh root@$VIRTHOST uname -a

Getting the script
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can download the `quickstart.sh` script with `wget`::

    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openstack/tripleo-quickstart/master/quickstart.sh

Install the dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You need some software available on your local system before you can run
`quickstart.sh`. You can install the necessary dependencies by running::

    bash quickstart.sh --install-deps

Setup your virtual environment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Deploy with the most basic default options virtual environment by running::

    bash quickstart.sh $VIRTHOST

There are many configuration options available in
tripleo-quickstart/config/general_config/ and also in
tripleo-quickstart-extras/config/general_config/
In the examples below the ha.yml config is located in the tripleo-quickstart repository
and the containers_minimal.yml is located in the tripleo-quickstart-extras repository.
All the configuration files will be installed to your working_directory.

This does require the user to know what the working directory is set to. The variable OPT_WORKDIR
by default is ~/.quickstart but can be overriden with -w or --working_dir

Please review these options and use the appropriate configuration for your deployment.

Below are some examples.::

    bash quickstart.sh --config=~/.quickstart/config/general_config/ha.yml $VIRTHOST
    bash quickstart.sh --config=~/.quickstart/config/general_config/containers_minimal.yml $VIRTHOST
