roles/build-test-packages/README.md, before:

build-test-packages
===================

An Ansible role for generating custom RPMSs from upstream Gerrit changes in the
TripleO project using DLRN. This repo then can be injected in the tested
environment, a repo file created and a yum update should start using the built
RPMs.

Requirements
------------

* [DLRN](https://github.com/openstack-packages/DLRN)

Role Variables
--------------

* `local_working_dir` -- the directory where tripleo-quickstart is located
* `artg_dlrn_repo_url` -- the URL of the DLRN repository
* `artg_rdoinfo_repo_url` -- the URL of the rdoinfo repository that contains
  the project definitions for DLRN
* `artg_compressed_gating_repo` -- a full path to a compressed repository that
  contains all the generated rpms
* `artg_change_list` -- a list of changes to gate. Only needed when not running
  in Zuul or Gerrit (see below). The format is:
* `artg_requirements` -- used in roles mode, the requirements file to use for
  replacing the gated roles
* `artg_skipped_projects` -- a list of projects that are not going to be gated.
  This is useful if the project is directly checked out by the gate job as this
  retains "Depends-On" functionality for the rest of the projects. Also useful
  to skip projects that DLRN cannot build.

```yaml
artg_change_list:
    - host: "review.openstack.org"
      project: "openstack/tripleo-heat-templates"
      branch: "master"
      refspec: "refs/changes/1/123456/1"
    - host: ...
```

Gating with Zuul or Jenkins
---------------------------

The role can also work with Zuul and Jenkins based gating jobs.

In case of Zuul, the role uses `ZUUL_HOST` and `ZUUL_CHANGES` vars to parse the
full set of dependent changes that were previously
[resolved by Zuul](http://docs.openstack.org/infra/zuul/gating.html#cross-repository-dependencies).

If we're running in a Jenkins environment with the
[Gerrit Trigger plugin](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Gerrit+Trigger),
`GERRIT_HOST`, `GERRIT_CHANGE_ID`, `GERRIT_BRANCH` and
`GERRIT_PATCHSET_REVISION` are used to detect the gated change. The role then
searches for "Depends-On:" lines in the commit message (and recursively in the
commit messages of the dependent changes) and adds all of them to the gating
list. This happens through Gerrit server's public REST API.

Example Playbook
----------------

```yaml
---
- name: Build custom RPMs
  hosts: virthost
  roles:
    - build-test-packages
```

License
-------

Apache

Author Information
------------------

RDO-CI Team

Commit message:

Build role: support using sources from directory
Support copying sources from ready directories in addition
to cloning from repository. It's good both for CI -
when using cloned by ZUUL repos and for local development.
Remove built data from previous runs from DLRN folder.

Change-Id: I99ec5dfcc2ca05d133a125e6d53383ff86c65e1c

roles/build-test-packages/README.md, after:

build-test-packages
===================

An Ansible role for generating custom RPMSs from upstream Gerrit changes in the
TripleO project using DLRN. This repo then can be injected in the tested
environment, a repo file created and a yum update should start using the built
RPMs.

Requirements
------------

* [DLRN](https://github.com/openstack-packages/DLRN)

Role Variables
--------------

* `local_working_dir` -- the directory where tripleo-quickstart is located
* `artg_dlrn_repo_url` -- the URL of the DLRN repository
* `artg_rdoinfo_repo_url` -- the URL of the rdoinfo repository that contains
  the project definitions for DLRN
* `artg_compressed_gating_repo` -- a full path to a compressed repository that
  contains all the generated rpms
* `artg_change_list` -- a list of changes to gate. Only needed when not running
  in Zuul or Gerrit (see below). The format is:
* `artg_requirements` -- used in roles mode, the requirements file to use for
  replacing the gated roles
* `artg_skipped_projects` -- a list of projects that are not going to be gated.
  This is useful if the project is directly checked out by the gate job as this
  retains "Depends-On" functionality for the rest of the projects. Also useful
  to skip projects that DLRN cannot build.
* `artg_repos_dir` -- Root directory which contains project directories with
   sources for build.

```yaml
artg_change_list:
    - host: "review.openstack.org"
      project: "openstack/tripleo-heat-templates"
      branch: "master"
      refspec: "refs/changes/1/123456/1"
    - host: ...
```

Gating with Zuul or Jenkins
---------------------------

The role can also work with Zuul and Jenkins based gating jobs.

In case of Zuul, the role uses `ZUUL_HOST` and `ZUUL_CHANGES` vars to parse the
full set of dependent changes that were previously
[resolved by Zuul](http://docs.openstack.org/infra/zuul/gating.html#cross-repository-dependencies).

If we're running in a Jenkins environment with the
[Gerrit Trigger plugin](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Gerrit+Trigger),
`GERRIT_HOST`, `GERRIT_CHANGE_ID`, `GERRIT_BRANCH` and
`GERRIT_PATCHSET_REVISION` are used to detect the gated change. The role then
searches for "Depends-On:" lines in the commit message (and recursively in the
commit messages of the dependent changes) and adds all of them to the gating
list. This happens through Gerrit server's public REST API.

Example Playbook
----------------

```yaml
---
- name: Build custom RPMs
  hosts: virthost
  roles:
    - build-test-packages
```

License
-------

Apache

Author Information
------------------

RDO-CI Team
